.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH discover 1  "discover "
.SH NAME
discover \- Endpoint discovery: parse OpenAPI/Swagger, run GraphQL introspection, or fire differential parameter mining
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdiscover\fR [\fB\-\-target\fR] [\fB\-\-spec\fR] [\fB\-\-introspect\fR] [\fB\-\-mine\-params\fR] [\fB\-\-wordlist\fR] [\fB\-\-concurrency\fR] [\fB\-\-delay\-ms\fR] [\fB\-\-baseline\-requests\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR] [\fB\-\-output\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Endpoint discovery from one of three sources, output as JSON pipeable into `wafrift scan \-\-from\-discovery`. All three modes can run together; results are concatenated and deduplicated by (method, url).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-target\fR \fI<TARGET>\fR
Target URL (used by \-\-introspect and \-\-mine\-params). Required when either of those modes is enabled. Ignored by \-\-spec
.TP
\fB\-\-spec\fR \fI<SPEC>\fR
Path to an OpenAPI 2.0 (Swagger) or 3.x JSON spec file. The spec's `paths.<path>.<method>` entries become discovered endpoints; parameters become injection points (Query / Path / Header / Cookie / Body, with media\-type\-aware context inference for request bodies)
.TP
\fB\-\-introspect\fR
POST a GraphQL introspection query to \-\-target and emit one endpoint per top\-level field on Query / Mutation / Subscription. Returns IntrospectionDisabled if the server blocks introspection
.TP
\fB\-\-mine\-params\fR
Differential parameter mining: collect a baseline, then probe each candidate from \-\-wordlist. Hits are flagged when the response status / body length / latency diverges from the baseline beyond the configured thresholds
.TP
\fB\-\-wordlist\fR \fI<WORDLIST>\fR
Newline\-delimited wordlist file for \-\-mine\-params. Required when that mode is enabled. Common picks: SecLists' burp\-parameter\-names
.TP
\fB\-\-concurrency\fR \fI<CONCURRENCY>\fR [default: 8]
Concurrency cap for \-\-mine\-params probes
.TP
\fB\-\-delay\-ms\fR \fI<DELAY_MS>\fR [default: 50]
Per\-worker delay between consecutive \-\-mine\-params probes (ms)
.TP
\fB\-\-baseline\-requests\fR \fI<BASELINE_REQUESTS>\fR [default: 5]
Number of baseline requests for \-\-mine\-params. More = tighter envelope, slower start
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR \fI<FORMAT>\fR [default: text]
Output format. `text` (default) is human\-friendly; `json` is a stable, machine\-parseable surface piped into `wafrift scan \-\-from\-discovery`
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
text
.IP \(bu 2
json
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR \fI<OUTPUT>\fR
Write JSON output to this file instead of stdout
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Parse an OpenAPI 3.x spec:
.nf
wafrift discover \-\-spec api.json \-\-format json \-\-output endpoints.json
.fi
.TP
Probe a GraphQL endpoint:
.nf
wafrift discover \-\-target https://api.example.com/graphql \-\-introspect
.fi
.TP
Differential parameter mining:
.nf
wafrift discover \-\-target https://app.example.com/search \\
    \-\-mine\-params \-\-wordlist /path/to/burp\-parameter\-names.txt
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wafrift-scan (1),
.BR wafrift-recon (1)
