.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH wafrift 1  "wafrift 0.3.1" 
.SH NAME
wafrift \- WAF evasion toolkit — run without arguments for interactive mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwafrift\fR [\fB\-q\fR|\fB\-\-quiet\fR] [\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-config\fR] [\fB\-\-differential\-baseline\fR] [\fB\-\-detonate\-engine\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fIsubcommands\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
WAF evasion toolkit — run without arguments for interactive mode.
.PP
Exit codes (CI\-friendly):
0  success
1  generic error (IO failure, runtime error, etc.)
2  argument / input error (unknown flag, contradictory selectors, malformed value, unknown technique selector, unrecognised algorithm, missing required field) — clap convention; ALSO used by bench\-waf for \*(Aqzero bypasses\*(Aq and by replay for \*(Aqsaved bypass blocked\*(Aq (legacy: per perf\-hunt N01 the dual usage is documented rather than split because the bench\-waf/replay overload is well\-established in CI scripts)
3  bench\-diff: regression vs baseline (see \-\-bypass\-drop\-pp)
4  bench\-waf \-\-validate\-only: corpus integrity errors (duplicate id, TOML parse failure, missing required field)
5  scan: aborted — target rate\-limited the probes (inconclusive, not \*(Aqno bypass\*(Aq)
7  scan \-\-scan\-timeout\-secs: wall\-clock budget exceeded — partial results emitted (check truncated_by_scan_timeout in JSON output)
.PP
Environment variables (R50 pass\-12 I5 / CLAUDE.md §10):
HOME, USERPROFILE      home dir for ~/.wafrift state (gene\-bank, hunt, keys)
RUST_LOG               tracing filter (e.g. RUST_LOG=wafrift=debug); default is `warn`
NO_COLOR               if set (any value), disable ANSI colour in tracing output
WAFRIFT_BENCH_URL      fallback target URL for bench\-waf / hunt
WAFRIFT_MODSEC_URL     legacy alias for WAFRIFT_BENCH_URL (deprecated)
WAFRIFT_CORPUS         fallback bench corpus path
H1_API_KEY             HackerOne API token (required by `wafrift submit`)
H1_USERNAME            HackerOne handle (required by `wafrift submit`)
WAFRIFT_REPLAY_AUTOEXEC  proxy/yank: if 1, replay\-curl files are bash\-executed
(operator opt\-in side\-channel; off by default)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress human\-readable output — emit only machine\-parseable results (JSON)
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fI<CONFIG>\fR
Path to a TOML config file. Default: `.wafrift.toml` in CWD or `~/.config/wafrift/config.toml`
.TP
\fB\-\-differential\-baseline\fR
Differential\-baseline bypass verification. Credit a payload as a WAF bypass only when the UN\-EVADED base is BLOCKED in the same delivery — proving the evasion is what passed it, not a payload the WAF never policed. Off by default (anti\-rig: the headline bypass metric is unchanged unless you opt in). Costs ~one extra probe per delivery arm.

Named `\-\-differential\-baseline` (not bare `\-\-differential`) to stay distinct from the `diff <kind>` parser\-disagreement subcommands.
.TP
\fB\-\-detonate\-engine\fR \fI<DETONATE_ENGINE>\fR [default: jsdet]
Detonation engine used whenever wafrift proves execution (`\-\-prove\-execution`, `exploit`, proxy classification): `jsdet` (default, fast QuickJS sandbox) or `chrome` (real headless Chrome — also fires mutation\-XSS and browser\-only handlers the sandbox cannot model). The chrome engine needs a Chrome/Chromium binary (`$WAFRIFT_CHROME_BIN`)
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
jsdet
.IP \(bu 2
chrome
.RE
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
wafrift\-evade(1)
Transform a payload with evasion techniques
.TP
wafrift\-exploit(1)
Detonation\-guided evasion — find a payload that bypasses the WAF AND actually executes (`alert(1)` fires), proven by the `detonate` sandbox
.TP
wafrift\-client\-deliver(1)
Emit the WAF\-blind CLIENT\-SIDE delivery plan for an XSS payload: the fragment / window.name / postMessage / storage / client\-route channels whose taint source never reaches the server, so no WAF/CDN inspects them. Sends nothing — it prints a copy\-pasteable browser\-delivery plan (text or `wafrift.client_deliver.v1` JSON for scald) confirmed by DOM execution, not a server response. The lane modern reflected\-XSS bypasses live in
.TP
wafrift\-detect(1)
Identify a WAF / CDN / origin\-infrastructure from response metadata
.TP
wafrift\-probe(1)
Generate differential analysis probes
.TP
wafrift\-scan(1)
Fire evasion variants against a live target and report bypass results
.TP
wafrift\-origin\-hints(1)
DNS hints for `origin_bypass` (authorized targets only)
.TP
wafrift\-egress\-example(1)
Print JSON snippets for egress presets (e.g. Tor SOCKS)
.TP
wafrift\-techniques(1)
List or explain available technique selectors for `\-\-only`/`\-\-exclude`
.TP
wafrift\-completion(1)
Generate shell completions for bash, zsh, fish, or PowerShell
.TP
wafrift\-recon(1)
Origin discovery via crt.sh + DNS (authorized targets only)
.TP
wafrift\-discover(1)
Endpoint discovery: parse OpenAPI/Swagger, run GraphQL introspection, or fire differential parameter mining. Emits `DiscoveredEndpoint` JSON suitable for piping into `wafrift scan \-\-from\-discovery`
.TP
wafrift\-replay(1)
Replay a saved bypass against a target — proves reproducibility
.TP
wafrift\-report(1)
Generate a markdown findings report from the proxy gene bank
.TP
wafrift\-init(1)
Scaffold a `.wafrift.toml` config in the current directory
.TP
wafrift\-seed(1)
Pre\-load a gene\-bank with known\-working techniques (per\-WAF or per\-host)
.TP
wafrift\-import\-curl(1)
Take a curl invocation (e.g. from Burp\*(Aqs "Copy as cURL"), run scan against the parsed target
.TP
wafrift\-bank(1)
Manage gene\-banks: list / export / import
.TP
wafrift\-bypass\-probe(1)
Differential bypass scanner against a single protected URL. Fires 230 auth\-bypass header probes + path\-routing\-disagreement variants + HTTP method overrides; reports any probe that diverges from the baseline response. The Tsai\-class vuln finder
.TP
wafrift\-man(1)
Generate a troff man page for `wafrift` (and optionally subcommands)
.TP
wafrift\-model\-evade(1)
Active\-learning WAF bypass: learn the target\*(Aqs decision boundary online (L* membership queries via HTTP), mine bypass candidates offline against the learned SFA at ~1M/sec, and verify each online. Deduces bypasses from the WAF\*(Aqs decision boundary — not from mutation luck. Use `\-\-budget` to cap live queries
.TP
wafrift\-audit(1)
Decompile a CRS\-class ruleset and report the holes an attacker can drive through it (the WAF X\-ray). Zero\-config; `\-\-ruleset` audits a custom Tier\-B config
.TP
wafrift\-harden(1)
Synthesize the minimal CRS\-grade rules that close the holes `audit` finds, prove zero benign false positives, and exit non\-zero unless closure is proven (usable as a CI gate)
.TP
wafrift\-fingerprint(1)
Fingerprint a live target\*(Aqs origin\-normalization pipeline by reflection (which decode/normalize stages it applies), then optionally solve a TARGETED, live\-verified bypass of `\-\-attack` against that exact pipeline. The decompiler aimed at one host
.TP
wafrift\-sanitizer\-decompile(1)
Decompile a CLIENT\-SIDE HTML sanitizer: recover its source from a JS source map (or raw JS), extract its allow/deny model (DOMPurify config, `sanitize\-html` allowlist, hand\-rolled `replace()` strips), then L*/SFA\- mine the XSS vectors that survive it. The DOM\-XSS dual of `fingerprint`; each surviving bypass is model\-proven and flagged for scald DOM confirm
.TP
wafrift\-tcp\-overlap(1)
Plan a target\-based TCP sequence\-overlap desync: overlapping TCP segments a WAF/IDS reassembles to a BENIGN stream while the origin reassembles to the ATTACK (Ptacek\-Newsham / Snort stream5 class). Each plan is self\- verified by simulating both reassembly policies (first/last/bsd/linux). Emits the segments (seq + bytes) for a raw\-socket sender to deliver
.TP
wafrift\-legendary(1)
One\-shot demo command — runs detect + fingerprint + bypass\-probe (and optionally scan) against a single target, and stitches the results into one polished markdown writeup
.TP
wafrift\-listener(1)
Out\-of\-band callback receiver — pre\-mints unique tokens to embed in payloads (blind SQLi / stored XSS / blind SSRF / OOB command injection); logs any inbound HTTP request matching a minted token. The oracle for the vuln classes that never echo a verdict on the same response
.TP
wafrift\-diff(1)
Differential analysis — surface WAF↔origin (and WAF↔cache, H1↔H2, browser↔browser) parser disagreements, wafrift\*(Aqs deepest bypass seam. `wafrift diff <kind>` groups the whole family in one verb: `path` / `header` / `body` / `query` / `cache` / `h2` / `method` / `gql` / `jwt` / `cors` / `trailer`. `all` runs the SEVEN original parser\-diff probes concurrently (path, header, body, query, cache, h2, method) — it does NOT include `gql` / `jwt` / `cors` / `trailer`; run those individually. The legacy `<kind>\-diff` commands and `attack` remain as deprecated hidden aliases (LAW 2)
.TP
wafrift\-compress(1)
Wrap a request body in one or more `Content\-Encoding` layers (gzip / deflate / brotli / chain). The compression\-confusion attack: WAFs that inspect raw bytes pass over the encoded body while the origin decompresses normally. Brotli is the headline gap — many WAFs don\*(Aqt ship a brotli decompressor even though Chrome / nginx / Apache all do
.TP
wafrift\-smuggle(1)
HTTP request smuggling probes (CL.TE / TE.CL / TE.TE / CL.0 / dual\-CL / multi\-value\-CL, plus the CVE\-class chunk\-ext\-lone\-lf, rapid\-reset, made\-you\-reset, settings\-storm — run `wafrift smuggle list` for the authoritative, current variant set). Subcommands: `detect` runs the SAFE timing\-differential probes that can\*(Aqt poison the connection pool; `probe` fires the exploit\-grade payloads (requires `\-\-unsafe`); `dry\-run` renders the raw wire bytes without sending anything; `list` enumerates the variants. Built on the same engine powering the `wafrift\-smuggling` library, but exposed as a first\-class CLI surface so pentesters don\*(Aqt need to roll their own runner
.TP
wafrift\-smuggle\-emit(1)
Emit every wafrift smuggle probe as JSON (one per line) across the 11 probe families: cookie, auth, range, path, host, jwt, content\-type, json, capsule, quic\-datagram, compression. Pipe to `jq` / Burp / `xargs curl` to drive probes through any HTTP client that reads JSON. `\-\-family <prefix>` filters; `\-\-kind headers|body|frames` filters by artifact shape; `\-\-canary\-header NAME` attaches an instrumentation header to each probe; exit 2 when zero probes match
.TP
wafrift\-smuggle\-cross\-product(1)
Emit the cartesian product of two smuggle\-probe families as composed JSON artifacts. For every probe in family X × every probe in family Y, emit one merged artifact carrying both probes\*(Aq wire shapes — surfaces bypass\-chain interactions that no single technique produces. Bound output size with `\-\-cap N` (default 64); exit 2 when either side matches zero probes
.TP
wafrift\-smuggle\-stats(1)
Operator\-facing probe\-budget snapshot. Counts every probe wafrift can emit across the 11 smuggle families, broken down by family and artifact kind, and reports the total wire\-byte budget. Output is structured JSON suitable for piping into `jq` or CI gates. Useful for deciding whether you need to subsample before firing a scan against a rate\-limited target
.TP
wafrift\-smuggle\-chain(1)
N\-way smuggle\-probe composition. Takes 2+ `\-\-family <NAME>` flags and emits the cartesian product of probes across all N families as composed JSON artifacts. The N\-way generalization of `smuggle\-cross\-product`. Bound output size with `\-\-cap N` (default 64); exit 2 when any family matches zero probes
.TP
wafrift\-smuggle\-fire(1)
Fire every smuggle probe against a live target. The end\-to\-end execution pipeline — converts probe artifacts to real HTTP requests, fires via reqwest, captures status/body\-length/latency, and reports a `bypass_signal` vs a baseline request (`canary\-reflected` / `none` / `status\-diverged` / `body\-diverged` / `both\-diverged`). `canary\-reflected` is the strongest signal: a 16\-char random canary token appeared verbatim in the response (false\-positive\- free). Requires `\-\-i\-have\-permission <REASON>` for non\- allowlisted hosts. Frame\-artifact probes (capsule / quic\-datagram / compression) are skipped — they live below the HTTP layer
.TP
wafrift\-distill(1)
Adversarial distillation via Zeller\*(Aqs ddmin: take a KNOWN\- working bypass payload and find the minimum\-edit\-distance subset that STILL bypasses. Useful for pentest reports — shorter payloads are easier for clients to reproduce, and the reduction reveals which payload features the WAF actually objected to vs. which were noise. Typically chained from `wafrift scan \-\-format json | jq .bypass_variants[0].payload`
.TP
wafrift\-cluster(1)
Offline bypass clustering: group a `bench\-waf \-\-output` JSON by rule_id, payload class, and edit\-distance similarity. Outputs clusters with a representative technique and member count per cluster. Pure offline — no HTTP. Useful for triaging large bypass corpora and identifying duplicate root causes
.TP
wafrift\-sarif(1)
Emit SARIF 2.1.0 from a `bench\-waf \-\-output` or `scan \-\-output` JSON file. SARIF is the OASIS\-standardised security\-tool format accepted by GitHub Code Scanning, Azure DevOps, and most enterprise SAST/DAST UIs. Pipe a wafrift result into this and the bypass findings appear as first\-class alerts on a PR or dashboard. Pure offline — no HTTP. Use `\-` to read from stdin
.TP
wafrift\-hunt(1)
Long\-running autonomous bypass campaign. Repeatedly runs `bench\-waf \-\-evade` rounds against a target with rotating mutators/strategies, saves every confirmed bypass to a campaign JSON at `~/.wafrift/hunt\-<campaign\-id>.json`, and exits cleanly on Ctrl\-C. Resumable: re\-run with the same `\-\-campaign\-id`
.TP
wafrift\-harvest(1)
Turn a hunt/bench bypass corpus into review\-ready HackerOne reports
.TP
wafrift\-submit(1)
File a SINGLE reviewed harvest report to HackerOne (guarded)
.TP
wafrift\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH VERSION
v0.3.1
